# An Object Oriented Drawing and Painting Application
 Part 1: Geometric Shapes Data Model Description  Geometric shapes belong to different groups (ex: Elliptical Shapes, Polygons,  Sectors…etc.). Members of these different groups are related to each other in  the sense that they share common properties. In order to be able to  implement an efficient and object oriented drawing application. It is essential  to design a model that takes these relations into consideration. Tasks: • Design an object-oriented model that covers the following geometric  shapes: Line Segment, Circle, Triangle, Rectangle and Square. • Identify at least 6 required Design patterns that can help to facilitatethe implementation of the Application • Draw a UML (Class and use case) diagrams that represents your  model, showing all the classes’ attributes and methods. • Apply the 4 components of OOP to your design. • You should apply SOLID principles in the program.Part 2: Drawing and Painting Application Drawing and painting applications are very popular and have a huge user base.  They generally offer a big number of features that includes but is not limited to:  Drawing, Coloring, and Resizing. They allow the user to undo or redo any  instructions so as to make the application more usable. Tasks: • Implement your design from part 1 in an OOP language. • Design and implement a GUI that allows the following functionalities  for the user on all the shapes defined in part 2: Draw, Color, Resize,  delete, copy and Move. • Implement your application such that it would allow the user to undo  or redo any action performed. • The cursor should be used to select the location of a shape while  drawing it, or moving it to another location, for more accurate control  on the shape parameters (ex: size), dialog boxes could be used, or  you’re free to implement it in a more user friendly way of your choice. • For the copy, a shape could be selected for copy, and pasted in any  other spot of the drawing canvas.
